# bayesian-study-group
A collection of Bayesian inspired concepts.

## Bayesian Statistics
- [Wikipedia on Bayesian Statistics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_statistics): Bayesian statistics is a theory in the field of statistics based on the Bayesian interpretation of probability where probability expresses a degree of belief in an event. The degree of belief may be based on prior knowledge about the event, such as the results of previous experiments, or on personal beliefs about the event. This differs from a number of other interpretations of probability, such as the frequentist interpretation that views probability as the limit of the relative frequency of an event after a large number of trials.

- [Ben Lambert's Bayesian Statistics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLwJRxp3blEvZ8AKMXOy0fc0cqT61GsKCG): This course aims to provide a core understanding of Bayesian statistics  that is grounded in mathematical theory, yet friendly to the less mathematically-minded of persons. It aims to focus on the intuitive results of Bayesian theory rather than dwell on the mathematical minutiae.
  - [ben-lambert.com/bayesian](https://ben-lambert.com/bayesian/): "If you don’t know, Bayesian statistics is an analytical framework increasingly used in research in the social, physical and biological sciences. Specifically Bayesian statistics uses the language of probability to express our uncertainty about scientific hypotheses. A ‘hypothesis’ is an explanation about the state of the world that may be true or false; to ensure that a hypothesis is ‘scientific’ it must be testable with data. Accordingly, Bayesian statistics uses data we collect from the world to update our view on scientific hypotheses."

- [Convergence Guarantees for Adaptive Bayesian Quadrature Methods](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.10271):Adaptive Bayesian quadrature (ABQ) is a powerful approach to numerical integration that empirically compares favorably with Monte Carlo integration on problems of medium dimensionality (where non-adaptive quadrature is not competitive). Its key ingredient is an acquisition function that changes as a function of previously collected values of the integrand. While this adaptivity appears to be empirically powerful, it complicates analysis. Consequently, there are no theoretical guarantees so far for this class of methods. In this work, for a broad class of adaptive Bayesian quadrature methods, we prove consistency, deriving non-tight but informative convergence rates. To do so we introduce a new concept we call weak adaptivity. In guaranteeing consistency of ABQ, weak adaptivity is notionally similar to the ideas of detailed balance and ergodicity in Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods, which allow sufficient conditions for consistency of MCMC. Likewise, our results identify a large and flexible class of adaptive Bayesian quadrature rules as consistent, within which practitioners can develop empirically efficient methods.
